.TH ZAG 1 "March 2024" "zag 0.1.0" "Zag Manual"

.SH NAME
zag \- A modern package manager for Zig

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B zag
[\fICOMMAND\fR] [\fIOPTIONS\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B zag
is a modern, cargo-inspired package manager for the Zig programming language.
It provides seamless dependency management with automatic build integration,
making Zig project development as smooth as possible.

.SH COMMANDS

.TP
.BR init
Initialize a new project with the necessary file structure.

.TP
.BR add " " \fIPACKAGE\fR
Add a dependency to your project with full automation.

.TP
.BR remove " " \fIPACKAGE\fR " | " \fBrm\fR " " \fIPACKAGE\fR
Remove a package dependency from your project with complete cleanup.

.TP
.BR update
Update all dependencies to their latest versions by re-downloading from GitHub.

.TP
.BR list " | " \fBls\fR " [--json]"
List all dependencies in the project. With \fB\-\-json\fR, outputs machine-readable JSON array.

.TP
.BR info " " \fIPACKAGE\fR
Show detailed information about a specific package.

.TP
.BR fetch
Fetch all dependencies specified in build.zig.zon.

.TP
.BR build
Build your project using the Zig build system.

.TP
.BR lock
Update or create the lock file without downloading packages.

.TP
.BR clean " [--all]"
Remove cache and build artifacts. With \fB\-\-all\fR flag, also removes zig-out/ and zag.lock.

.TP
.BR version
Display the current version of zag.

.TP
.BR help
Display help information about available commands.

.SH EXAMPLES

.PP
Initialize a new project:
.nf
.RS
zag init
.RE
.fi

.PP
Add a dependency from GitHub:
.nf
.RS
zag add mitchellh/libxev
.RE
.fi

.PP
List all dependencies:
.nf
.RS
zag list
.RE
.fi

.PP
Get package information:
.nf
.RS
zag info libxev
.RE
.fi

.PP
Clean build artifacts:
.nf
.RS
zag clean
zag clean --all
.RE
.fi

.SH FILES

.TP
.I build.zig.zon
Project manifest file containing dependencies.

.TP
.I zag.lock
Lock file that ensures reproducible builds.

.TP
.I .zag/cache/
Downloaded package tarballs.

.TP
.I .zag/deps/
Extracted package source code.

.SH ENVIRONMENT

Zag doesn't currently use any environment variables.

.SH AUTHOR

Zag Team <your-email@example.com>

.SH SEE ALSO

zig(1), curl(1), tar(1)

Report bugs to: https://github.com/yourusername/zag/issues